align.check.xml		 mantel.xml
align.seqs.xml		 merge.count.xml
amova.xml		 merge.files.xml
anosim.xml		 merge.taxsummary.xml
biom.info.xml		 metastats.xml
chimera.bellerophon.xml  mimarks.attributes.xml
chimera.ccode.xml	 nmds.xml
chimera.check.xml	 normalize.shared.xml
chimera.uchime.xml	 otu.association.xml
chop.seqs.xml		 otu.hierarchy.xml
classify.tree.xml	 pairwise.seqs.xml
clearcut.xml		 parsimony.xml
cluster.fragments.xml	 pass_tests.txt
cluster.xml		 pca.xml
consensus.seqs.xml	 pcoa.xml
cooccurrence.xml	 pcr.seqs.xml
corr.axes.xml		 phylo.diversity.xml
count.groups.xml	 phylotype.xml
count.seqs.xml		 pre.cluster.xml
create.database.xml	 primer.design.xml
degap.seqs.xml		 rarefaction.shared.xml
deunique.seqs.xml	 rarefaction.single.xml
deunique.tree.xml	 remove.dists.xml
dist.seqs.xml		 remove.groups.xml
dist.shared.xml		 remove.otulabels.xml
filter.shared.xml	 remove.otus.xml
get.communitytype.xml	 remove.rare.xml
get.coremicrobiome.xml	 remove.seqs.xml
get.dists.xml		 rename.seqs.xml
get.groups.xml		 reverse.seqs.xml
get.mimarkspackage.xml	 sens.spec.xml
get.otulabels.xml	 sffinfo.xml
get.rabund.xml		 shhh.flows.xml
get.relabund.xml	 shhh.seqs.xml
get.sabund.xml		 summary.seqs.xml
get.seqs.xml		 summary.single.xml
get.sharedseqs.xml	 summary.tax.xml
heatmap.bin.xml		 taxonomy-to-krona.xml
heatmap.sim.xml		 tool_data_table_conf.xml.sample
homova.xml		 unifrac.weighted.xml
lefse.xml		 unique.seqs.xml
libshuff.xml		 venn.xml
